Exactly.
Some did it a little more, some did it a little less.
But we stopped doing it after that.
You know we didn't do it anymore.
Nobody got paddled for it?
No because the upperclassmen thought it was good bull.
And apparently it had been done in earlier years?
Yes, because that outfit had been around for a while.
And actually after that year they dissolved that outfit and they combined us with, they reorganized the corps in other words, that's what they did.
our outfit and put it in with squadrons one and two.
And they took some of the other outfits and combined them.
So we had a mix of, sophomore year we had a mix of different outfits because we reorganized the whole structure of the Corps.
And so, but I think one of the reasons they dissolved us is because we were kind of a hell raising
group and and so they decided that no get rid of these guys and they're nothing but trouble you know so they split us up so.
Now there wasn't a fish day in your town.
Yes.
There was one?
Describe it please.
We had two fish days.
One in the fall and one in the spring and and you would go through the reverse.
You would be the sophomore and the and the uh
And the sophomore would be the freshman.
And it was chaotic, chaotic.
So would he come and clean up your room?
No.
Oh.
He'd come up and mess up our room.
See, because he would say that that's what we would do to him.
Oh, I see.
So if you brought him into your room, if you had him in your room for that day, then what he was going to do while he was there, he was going to
pull down your bed, step on your shoes, throw your clothes out of the closet.
You know, he would just go in there and just start throwing it all out.
And if you were smart enough, you knew you couldn't really pick on him that much because the next day it came back to the same old thing, you know.
So you stayed away from that.
But I guess the way we retaliated with the sophomores, because you could only go one class above you.
We used to have the drown outs.
I don't know if you've heard of the drown outs.
We used to do those a lot.
And we used to do the babble bombs a lot.
What did you all use as the explosive for the Babel bomb?
Well we'd get a can of Babel and put a cherry bomb in there.
Just a cherry bomb.
And just roll it into the room and boom and everything's Ajaxed.
And of course we'd have to clean up the room because they'd go looking for you and if they couldn't find a particular freshman that did it they'd just
pull all the freshman class out.
Same thing with the drown outs.
Pull all the freshman class and put you in there to clean up the room and you'd clean it, but you'd have fun doing it because
You would work on doing some things to them that they wouldn't realize, like instead of using the regular shoe polish on their shoes, you'd put Johnson wax on there or you'd put shaving cream in there.
So when they got up in the morning and put the shoe on, they'd, those kind of things would always happen.
Did just about every freshman participate in these things?
Yes, yes.
The drownouts were mass.
In other words, every freshman had to do it.
And we were all responsible, and we knew what we were going to do.
And if we didn't do like a mass drownout, we would pick a certain hole with a sophomore.
But we were all involved in it.
We knew that was happening.
I mean, it was just like we'd meet, okay, who we were going to hit.
Or we'd say okay let's do them all at one time and boom we'd go do them all at one time and we'd get these coke, the cartons that were, the wood cartons, and we'd use them to actually jar their door so they couldn't get out.
So that's the way we'd try to get away with it.
But I mean they were going to know who did it.
I mean they were going to get away with it.
Now did you all ever avoid doing that to anybody who might have a big test the next day?
Not that I can recall.
Is that right?
I don't think we were that nice.
Let's see, did you have a nickname as a freshman?
Well actually when I came here my name was, was, was Gregory.
And that's the way everybody called me through high school.
When I came here,
everybody shortened it to Greg.
And that's what stuck.
We used to have nicknames for each other, yes.
Hot Tamale, WAP, you know, those kind of things.
But those were only within ourselves, not really like
like that we used them in front of an underclassman or in front of upperclassmen who were freshmen.
All right.
Now, in today's lingo, some of the nicknames would be politically incorrect.
Yes, correct.
But you all didn't think of them in those terms at all, did you?
Really, it really didn't bother me because I figured that I had proven myself as a person just like anybody else.
And it's the same way as a person from Italian descent, probably the same way.
You know, we were all like
one, you know, and that's the way we looked at it.
When it came down to the nitty-gritty, we were all as one.
It didn't make any difference what you were.
I mean, I didn't know that the guy that was next to me was rich or the guy next to me was poor.
I had no idea of any of those things because they never let you
I figured, of course you figure out the guy was rich because he had a car on campus, you know, but there weren't very many of those, you know, so the majority of us were, we really didn't pay much attention to that.
Like I tell everybody that if you were a part of the group that was it.
That's it.
that nothing else mattered and you were fully accepted.
Right.
And everybody participated.
Everybody participated.
Nobody was left out.
The only one that would be left out is if it's an individual that was having trouble.
And you would have to try to bring that individual back into the group.
And normally it would work, you know, say a freshman or even a sophomore, if they said the sophomore's not cutting the mustard, you know, or freshman's not cutting the mustard, you need to bring him up to par with the rest of you guys.
And it was a responsibility of the class to bring him up to par.
And we always carried that through, I mean all the way through.
I remember being a senior and I'd see a freshman in my outfit that I felt that maybe needed to, you know, be polished up a little bit and I would go to the freshmen that I felt were the leaders.
In a week I expect this freshman to be just like the rest of you guys.
And they would normally work on that.
What was it like to go to football games as a freshman fish drill team member?
Well no we didn't.
We went in with our outfits.
We never went, we only had, actually back then we never even had one game that we marched as a unit.
The only time we marched as a unit outside the campus with the Corps was on the Corps trips.
And when we had the Corps trip they would let us march as one unit, as a fish drill team.
Do you remember where you went that fall in the Corps trip?
Yes, Fort Worth.
Describe Fort Worth, Dallas.
We were playing.
No we were playing at SMU.
It was in Dallas.
How did you get there?
Hitched the ride.
And actually that's why our outfit was in so much trouble.
We had this junior, his name was Smith.
He was a chunky guy.
And everybody liked him and he was everybody's buddy you know.
And so we went on the court trip, and, of course, first thing Friday night we were going to be, they told us, you have your uniform on, you go over to TWU because they're going to have the big dance, and you'll get a honey over there and all that kind of stuff, and you might even get a date.
It wasn't a situation where you had to worry about getting a ticket to the game because you could always get it.
And so we'd go over there.
So the junior said, okay, I'll tell you what I'm going to do.
I am the quartermaster here, you pay me and what do you want to drink?
And I'll meet you at this certain area at TWU and I'll give you your requirement, you know, which was whatever you ordered, bourbon, scotch or whatever, so he would do that.
And he'd be there in his car and have a trunk open and he'd be the distributor of the alcohol.
We would always have outfit parties.
and the outfit parties were always, we would drop handles at the outfit parties.
And the upperclassmen, like the juniors and seniors will always treat us a lot better than the sophomores.
The sophomores always were a little still, a little strong on us, but they couldn't haze you or anything like that.
And we'd have a good time.
I mean it was kind of a bonding time away from here.
We used to have beer busts.
Some people probably have told you that.
We'd have beer busts on the Brazos and we'd go out there to the pit out there and then
They'd have these keg of beers and we'd drink the beer and come back and get something to eat and then everybody would go to sleep that Friday night and get up the next morning before the football game and we'd go to our drill.
We used to drill on Saturdays.
We used to have drill on Saturdays.
So every Saturday part of our
week was the bull-tex part of it, which was either drill or going to a class.
So every Saturday for the four years that I was here we had a Saturday morning drill or bull-tex, whatever it was.
So we did have that.
Back on this court trip though, you marched as, and that day you and your buddies marched as the fish drill team in Dallas.
How did you feel?
Oh, it was a great feeling because, I mean, you know, you felt like, well, you know, I accomplished
something or something great for you.
I mean it was like everybody knew that you were, you know, because we wore a different uniform.
We didn't wear like the same uniform that the rest of the corps was wearing so we had our own uniform.
What did the fish rail team dress uniform look like?
Back then we would wear the blouse, but we had like white belts and of course the scarf.
We'd wear jump boots with white lacing.
And sometimes we'd wear the hat, the regular little hat or helmet liner, dependent.
And did you have a date that weekend or do you remember?
No, I did not have a date.
Where did you spend the night?
That night I stayed at a friend's house in Dallas.
I still remember his name, Roland.
Garcia.
He was in the Army unit.
And my best friend who was in his outfit talked to him and he said we could stay over at his place, which I can't even remember.
He lived a very modest family.
I mean they were Hispanic and
And they had a very modest home, and I guess I would say probably east part of Dallas.
And so that's where we spent two nights.
We stayed there Friday night and then Sunday night.
Now when I was a junior, we got a little smarter, and TWU would always have these
accommodations in some of the dormitories, the old wood shacks that they had that were not occupied.
So we would get the rooms for two dollars a night with, they'd give us sheets and the blankets, and we were there for two nights.
And that was pretty good.
That was pretty good.
How did you and your buddies treat those young ladies from TWU?
We treated them real well.
It was so different from today.
I remember when I was a junior, my dad bought me a car.
Because my mother would complain because I would hitchhike back and forth.
And so my dad, I came home, the end of my sophomore year, and right before I came into my junior year, my dad said, I want you to go with me.
So I went.
And he bought me this 57 Buick Riviera hardtop.
And it was nice.
It was bright red, we used to call it big red.
And it was a beautiful car.
And the idea was, okay you bring it up during football season, son, but you give it back to us after football season and we used it.
And he had another car of course, but you know I gave him the car back after football season.
So we would go, when I was a junior I had the car, of course I was big buddies with a lot of the guys because they wanted to go with you up to TWU and you're in that car and we're going to be all right.
And I remember junior year I had these sophomores with me and one of them told me, well I can get you into the dance or I can get you into this.
I can get you into these different places but we have to say, we can get you a room, but we have to say that you're going out to the dance with one of these girls.
All right, that's fine.
So they assigned us a girl.
We went up there.
We got the room.
We had the girls, of course.
And we went to the dormitory that they were in.
And it was really a nice house.
And they came down.
They met us.
And God, they were all good looking.
I mean, we were just like, wow.
And the girl that one of my buddies had was supposed to go with, he didn't really like her, but I did.
And so the other, he liked the one that I was supposed to go.
So we kind of like worked it out.
And so this girl was from Rio Grande City, a very, very nice young lady.
And Rodriguez was her last name.
And she was, she was very, very pretty.
And, but anyway, she, her father was a county judge and, and,
a colonel in the Air Force Reserves.
And so we became good friends.
We were never serious about each other but we went to the dance that night, took them to the football game the next day and we had a great time.
And we always tried to treat them right because they always treated us right.
So I don't think we were, I can recall anybody ever did anything that was out of hand or misbehaved that I can recall.
I know we used to have this one thing.
We, in our outfit, we used to call the moose pot.
And the moose pot, we'd all pitch into the moose pot, and the guy that had the ugliest date would get the monies.
So I mean it all worked out.
So I don't know if everybody told you about that before.
Did you go home Thanksgiving your freshman year?
Yes.
What were you thinking about A&M by then?
Did you like it?
By that time I was pretty much an Aggie.
I mean there was no ands and buts.
I was going to be an Aggie.
I mean I was, you know, being a freshman wasn't bothering me anymore.
I mean I think about the first month or so, I mean I hated it.
But then after that, I mean I started, you used to get adjusted, okay, being a fish drill team helped me, I mean no doubt about it.
And I guess another thing that helped me, and I didn't mention this to you in this, is when I walk into, I was taking, I was a pre-law major so I had to take two years of Spanish, okay.
And so when I walk into my Spanish class, and I knew how to speak the language, it was not a problem, but I never had really learned
you know, the grammar and the writing and the reading, so that's why I wanted to take it.
So I walk into the classroom and behold, my CO and my executive officer are in that class.
And they saw me walk into the class, I guess they assumed that you ought to speak Spanish.
So Captain Gatlin, he was the squadron commander, Fish Garcia come here.
So I go over there and he says, you sit right here between the two of us.
So it was Bruce Hudson was the executive officer and Johnny Gatlin was the CO.
So go back to the dorm and that night all of a sudden they tell me you're going to move out of your hole and you're moving to the hole next to the CO and the Executive Officer.
Okay fine.
So my roommate at that time was a young man from Amarillo and so they made us move all our stuff over.
And they kind of stayed away from us because they knew that we were, that I was helping them through their, they were already seeing or remembering this and so they needed to complete those courses and so anyway they
I had it made with them.
And they always, he would always, you know, we'd study together and I guess some of the upperclassmen didn't like that too much because they felt well this guy's like the pet of.
So did you do well academically that first semester?
First semester I did well.
Second semester I stumbled, but I mean I still did okay.
I guess based it on four point, I was at first semester probably at a little over two point, about two point five.
I almost had a two point out of three point in my first semester.
So it would be close to a three.
Yeah.
And then the second semester I struggled and I don't know what happened but I did struggle my second semester.
I think girlfriend problems, one of the reasons I struggled, and my girlfriend flushed me.
Was she back home?
She was in San Antonio, yeah.
She flushed me and I'm sure you've heard the story that when they would flush you you'd get the Dear John letter and you'd give it to the first sergeant.
Oh no, describe that.
If you didn't have to do this but you would, I mean you'd take the letter and say, look sir, you know, my girlfriend just flushed me.
And he'd say, OK.
So he'd say, well, do you want to share the letter?
Yeah, he'd read it.
It's OK.
After call the quarters tonight, we'll bring the outfit out, and we'll have the ceremony.
And the ceremony consisted of bringing out everybody to include all the upperclassmen, seniors, juniors, sophomores, freshmen.
In your outfit.
Line up on the wall.
And of course you're down, you know, and you're feeling bad.
So the first sergeant would get up there and start reading the letter and they'd make remarks about it, you know.
Not nice remarks, but remarks.
So when he completed reading the letter, you know, everybody would kind of sympathize with you and they'd have a 21-gun salute for you.
And the 21-gun salute was
going to the crappers, they'd have freshmen in the crappers, and they'd flush the crapper 21 times, take the letter and flush it down the toilet, see.
So they would do, that was... Really a flush.
Yeah, really flush, yeah.
So that's why they call it a flush letter.
All right, so at the end of that first year you're still pretty sure you're going to stay and all.
Yes.
Yeah, there was no doubt about it.
What did you do that first summer after the year?
My dad worked for Polly Kruger, I think I mentioned that to you.
And Polly Kruger owned all these San Antonio machine supply companies in the state that they had them all, Harland's and Corpus, Midland, Odessa, San Antonio.
San Antonio was a corporate headquarters.
And Polly Kruger told me, told my dad, as long as your son's at A&M, he has a job here at my place.
So he put me in a boiler shop that first year.
Oh man that was tough.
It was hard work.
I mean I knew then I wanted to come back to school because I was working in a welding.
You know we would build these water tanks and so I spent time out in Pleasanton.
putting this water tank together, spent the whole summer there.
That was hard work.
And I mean, that was hard work.
And every summer I'd go back, he never gave me an easy job.
He always put me in an area where I had to work hard.
You know, I mean, maybe I was a helper for someone, but I mean, I had to work hard.
And I mean, that made me appreciate the fact that I was going to college, and I'd see these older gentlemen that were working away and saying, God, man, I don't see how these guys can do it, you know.
That's why I was glad that I was coming back to school, so.
So you come back as a sophomore, and the new outfit, what number?
Squadron 2.
Did it have a nickname?
Yeah, it's Gator 2, it's still around.
Gator 2.
Yeah, Gator 2.
And new friends, because some of the, I presume some of the outfit mates were new guys?
Oh yeah, we had a combination of
My roommate, my official lady and I were still the same.
I mean we had been in Squadron 6 together.
And so we were roommates.
And then the others, we probably had about half and half, maybe 35, maybe 30 sophomores, something like that, and half were from one of the other outfits and the other half were from.
What about the leadership?
Leadership was the one that had been in the other outfit.
Yeah.
But you had that barber pole?
Yeah, barber pole, yeah.
I could wear that everywhere.
Did that help as a sophomore?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, it always did.
How was life for a sophomore better than a freshman?
Well, you didn't have to sit at attention in the mess hall.
You'd have to call everybody, sir.
You'd drop handles with everybody.
Those were the good things.
You had to start developing a leadership role within the outfit.
Of course, you know, which the leadership role was basically by being assigned as athletic corporal or squad leader, assistant squad leader, something like that.
So those were the leadership roles that they would give you.
And, of course, you worked with a freshman a lot.
You actually tried to make sure that
they followed the rule, because if they didn't do what you were supposed to do, then you were held responsible for it by the juniors.
So you started having more of a leadership role, and that was the difference.
Responsibilities started coming on, you know, and I think
I was able to study a lot better as a sophomore, you know, not maybe because of the discipline but because I got more adjusted to what was going on.
What would have happened back home if you had quit college?
What would your parents have done?
My dad would have been very disappointed for sure because he wanted me to complete here.
My mother didn't want me to come to A&M.
But I think that after she saw me go through the freshman year and the accomplishments that I had, grades of course not as good as they always wanted them to be, but the fact that I made the fish drill team and I was a guide on the fish drill team and that I was selected the outstanding freshman in my outfit, you know, those made her feel very proud.
And being a woman who came from Mexico
could not speak English very well.
To her, it was like, God, you know, I've really done something for my son, you know, I really have made him, I know he's gonna be better off than what we are, you know, and so she loved it, she loved it.
I mean, she, at that point after that, it was like she supported it.
Now, if I'd ever have, would have ever told my dad I was leaving,
And we talked about this.
I said, Dad, if I don't want to finish out, say, after my junior, sophomore year, junior year, he said, the only thing he told me was, son, if you're not mad enough to finish, then you don't need to come home.
So that kind of encouraged me a little bit.
I can understand that very well.
You change your major wins.
In my sophomore year I went to business and I was running way behind.
What led you to decide against law and in favor of business?
I really didn't want to follow the history and government major that I had and so I felt that I needed to, I had no plans of going on to law school.
I thought about it, my mother wanted me to do that, but I figured it was really a hardship for them and putting me through college at that point was, I mean I figured well I can always do it.
if I want to with a business major, you know, eventually I could go to law school or whatever, you know.
Did you seek any advice?
Yes.
I went to a counselor here, and I can't remember his name.
It wasn't the same one, not the same one.
I never had the same one really.
And he looked at my scores and he said, well you can do that, you know, you'll be all right.
So I followed that.
And I actually wanted to take accounting but I had too many hours, I was too far behind.
And I was trying to finish in four years.
So the biggest mistake I made was that in my junior year, I took 20 hours one semester and 21 hours the next to catch up.
And that was tragic because, I mean, I struggled.
I struggled because of too many courses.
But you still passed it.
I passed every one of them.
And I maintained the grade to stay.
And then eventually my senior year was a good year, though.
I mean, as far as grades were concerned.
had more time to do.
Did you and your buddies know about any easy courses where the grades were just?
Sure.
What were some of those?
Geology.
Is that right?
It was easy?
Oh yeah.
I think we had this geology course that was, that was, it was, it was an easy course.
Everybody knew about it and everybody would take it.
It was a four hour course.
We had a lab and all that.
Do you remember who taught it?
No.
It was a big guy.
Did it have a nickname, the course?
No, it was geology and we, I mean my, I guess half of my outfit took it.
Any other easy ones?
Were there any special courses for athletes?
No I can't recall it because I remember athletes being mixed in with the student, you know within the regular courses like marketing, I mean like the basketball player Broussard.
Carol Broussard.
Yeah.
He was in some of my classes.
He was a business major.
And I remember him going through with us through the four years.
I don't recall that they had special courses.
And they did, I didn't know about them.
Were there, in all of your years, were there some celebrity students, people, kids that everybody knew because of who their daddy was?
No.
Not that I, outside of Rudder.
Rudder I think had a son that was, but that was it.
But nobody really paid much attention.
Or maybe I didn't.
I don't think anybody did.
Yeah, we really, I mean he was just one of the guys, you know.
President Rudder got here about the same time you did.
What did you all think of him?
Well everybody liked him.
Why?
Because I think he was the type of person that came down and he wasn't like away, I mean he was a short sleeve type president that wasn't the same like a lot of the academia that are in their ivory tower and didn't want to spend much time with the student body.
He was more in with the student body and everybody kind of really liked him.
The most unpopular thing was when they did that, we were going what in our 75th year and they did that century study and they were having the century consulate that spent time here.
I was a senior, I was a senior.
But, I mean, up to that time, everything was going all right.
But when the Century Council came in and they were doing the study, you started hearing rumors about the fact that they were going to, no compulsory corps, the women were going to be admitted, and there were going to be some changes that, as an old corps and old ags or whatever, they were really upset, and you as an Aggie in the A&M should really not let it happen.
It really wasn't a concern of mine.
I thought that was probably the best way they had to go at the time because the university or the college was not going to grow.
I mean we were losing too many students.
I mean you could see that 40% of freshman classes just can't exist.
But anyway, I remember the Century Council was doing their study and when they got through, what they would do, they assigned a senior to one of the members of the council and you took them wherever you wanted to go on the campus and then you would go back and
And if he had a drill-in ceremony type activity, then you would be with him at the drill-in ceremony.
And I'm going to tell you this.
This was really kind of crazy.
I don't remember.
This guy was maybe the class of 1930-something.
And he's kind of a redneck guy.
And he's standing there watching the troops march by, going to the mess hall.
And he says,
asked me about what I felt about the core being non-compulsory.
And I said, well, if it's going to happen, it's going to happen, you know.
There's nothing we can do about it.
And he said, well, how do you feel about women coming to school?
I said, well, I mean, there's nothing that I can really offer you that, I mean, I don't see a problem with it myself.
And he says, well, how about blacks coming to the school?
I said, I think they should be allowed here just like anybody else.
I said, sir, what class are you?
And he told me it was 1930s somewhere.
And he said, I said, well how would you have felt when you were here if your roommate would have been a Mexican American?
And he didn't say anything.
If there had been a vote by the student body at that time,